# silver-princess-token
This project was used to create the silver-princess-token

## Creating a Solana Token with Solana CLI

Follow these steps to create a new token on the Solana blockchain using the Solana CLI.

### Prerequisites

- Install the Solana CLI: Follow the official [installation guide](https://docs.solana.com/cli/install-solana-cli-tools).
- Have access to the Solana Devnet.

### Procedure

1. **Create a Project Directory:**
  Open a new terminal, create a folder, and navigate to the folder

2. **Set Solana CLI to Use Devnet**
   This sets the default RPC cluster to Solana Devnet
   
3. **Generate a new keypair for token owner**
   It will generate a new keypair where the public address starts with key

4. **Set Solana CLI to use the New Keypair**
   (Keep the keypair safe as it controls the token mint)

5. **Create an Address for the Token Mint**

6. **Fund the Account with Devnet SOL**
   I used the Solana Faucet

7. **Create the Token Mint**
   (remember to replace the spr address with the one you have generated)
   
8. **Adding Metadata**
  Create a metadata file (.json file using a text editor)
  The image URL is generated by uploading the token icon (image) on a decentralized storage solution such as Web3 Storage.
  Upload the .json file you created to the decentralized Web3 Storage to obtain a link for the metadata.

10. **Initialize the Token Metadata**
    
11. **Create an Account for the Token Mint**

12. **Mint Tokens**

13. **Transfer Tokens To Another Owner**
    
